The Joe Rogan experience.
Tell me what you got there.
Yeah. In, you know,
talking about bear grease and trying to connect it to a podcast. I mean,
at some point I'll have to explain the metaphor of bear grease
what's explaining now. Well,
so bear grease at one time was this highly valued commodity,
I mean, use as a, a unit of currency on the American frontier and,
and, and bear, bear grease,
bear oil would be the rendered fat of a bear that would turned into liquid like
this right here. So this is, is for you. Thank you. Have you ever,
have you ever had, I mean, I know you've bear hunted,
but have you had bear grease before? No, I've.
Only I've eaten bear. I've never rendered bear or cooked anything in bare fat.
I've only just taken the meat and, and cooked it. Yeah. Usually.
Slow cooking. So what you would do with that is you would cook with it.
You would fry with it. You could make pastries with it.
You can use it to condition leather. You can use it.
It's supposed to be amazing.
Condition pastries, right. For like it is.
Pie crust. Yep.
And so there was a time when bear grease Bayard was
super valuable on the frontier before refrigeration, because bear fat stayed.
Didn't go ranted as quickly as pork. So like on the,
you would have pork and bear would be essentially the places where you would get
it. This lasted longer.
That'll lot last on the shelf at your house on refrigerated for
over.
A year. Why is it, why does it last so.
Much longer? Just it just whatever the constituency of Bayard is,
it just stays good for that long.
So going back to this metaphor of the name of bear grease in our podcast,
we're, we're exploring things. And even in the, in the, in the, in the,
you know, the, the tagline of the podcast,
we say that we're exploring thing or things that are forgotten but relevant.
And we're searching for insight in unlikely places. And so like this bear,
bear grease, I brought you some stuff that you can do with bear grease. This is,
uh, this is some bare fat li soap.
If have you ever used animal tall soap? No. Like just for like bathing,
washing your hands. I don't have man. That's incredible stuff. Yeah.
It really is a hundred percent all natural. I mean, it's, it's, it's a,
it's a ancient process of using lie and animal tall. What is lie? Exactly.
Lie is, um, Diagon, if you hadn't asked it's, I mean, it's a,
it's a chemical,
it's a caustic chemical that you can buy just about anywhere, but, uh,
shoot. How did used like H two something, something that they used to use Ash.
Oh, they used, they, they got the lie from Ash. There it is. And, uh,
uh.
It's a metal hydroxide traditionally obtained by leaching wood
ashes. Yeah. Or a strong alkaline, which is highly soluble in water, producing.
Caustic in AOA solutions, sodium sodium hydroxide. That's what, what it is.
So they would get it from like burning wood. Yeah. So they, they,
the real primitive method for making soap from, from animal tall.
And you could use, you could make animal tall soap out of beef towel,
anything but bare fat lie soap is, uh, is,
is our specialty not, but it, um, it's,
it's supposed to be real good for your skin. It's you know,
because do you sell this no hour, especially you never sell it. Just give away.
No, no, no, no, no, no. This is not, not for sale,
but did you make this? Yeah. Yeah. And so what are the, what's the ingredients?
So just lie and four ingredients,
bare fat sodium hydroxide, lie water, and then just essential oils.
We just food smell. Yeah. Yeah. So it smell, smell, smell good.
What are the essential oils smell? Like? One of them,
we had a bunch of different kind of oils that we added in like peppermint,
whatever. I don't know. Sometimes I'm amazed at how, uh, you know,
kind of like hygiene conscious that bear hunters are like making so open stuff,
because the other thing I brought you, Joe, and I know you don't, you don't,
you don't run a beard, but, uh, this is some bear grease beard oil. Oh.
That I made. And so that is a combination of three things.
So it's, it's cheating just a little bit, but it's, it's,
it's one part barrel oil, one part almond oil,
one part ha Hoba oil and then essential oils. And I mean,
you can drip it out, put it on your hands and um, Ooh, that smells good.
Yeah. It's interesting. And then the last one here,
and then I'll start talking about my metaphor again, if, if you're, if you want,
but this is a bear grease hand Sal.
And so oil has all kind of folklore around it.
And I'm in the process of like an anecdotal research,
very serious project of exploring all these folk tales of
bear grease and bear oil. And so it's healing properties. Yeah. Yeah. They,
they say, I mean, back in the day bear oil,
would've been used to relieve arthritis, pain. Um, they say,
and you can find this all over the internet that bear oil cures, baldness,
which obviously is like a big piece of folklore. Right.
But it's still just fun.
But going back to the idea that bear grease has all these uses in is that
this is thing that at one time was the currency.
And if you poll the United States 330 million Americans, and you said,
what is bear grease?
I mean like what percentage of people would even know what it was probably like
1% of 1%. Yeah. Yeah. And so it's been forgotten.
And so there was a time when,
so there's an archaic unit of measure of a barrel.
They used to take the tanned neck hide of a deer,
which would've been a part of the,
the buck skin that wasn't usable the neck hide and they would've sewed it
together and they would've used it to have stored bear oil and they called it
an eel. And I.
So they would make a container out of it, like a.
A contain almost an eel of bear oil. Huh. And it's just a wonder,
spell it like eel. Well, it it's, you know,
it's been probably 10 years since they've actually seen it written it's I think
it's E L L E like, oh, um,
an E of, of barrel oil. Would've been a unit of measurement.
So like you could have gone to the store and you're like, well,
I got two ills bear oil, you know, I'd like some flour. I'd like some whatever.
Wow. And, uh, you know, it's just,
it's a wonder that we don't call the us dollar, you know, and E just you,
what I'm saying,
cause the buck is essentially connected to the value of
a Whitetail deer skin that was tanned out and ready for tanning.
And that became equivalent to a buck for $1 for $1. Wow.
And so, so again,
this idea that there's some pretty amazing stuff that's forgotten.
And then as hunter is,
we're very interested in using as much as we can from these animals
that we're taking very interested in that.
And so a bear offers a whole nother market of
commodity that really no other big game offers in that you know, of,
of the big game that we hunt. Like let's say an elk. I mean like, you know,
you're gonna, you're gonna keep the meat.
Obviously that's the number one thing you're gonna keep his horns,
but very few people would even keep the height of that animal.
And certainly they're not rendering down elk tall Whitetail deer would have the
same sequence of usable commodities, man, a black bear.
We have incredible meat. We,
I would, I would venture to say that 90%,
maybe 80% of black bears that are killed in north America,
their hides are tanned. They have usually,
especially in the fall will have an incredible amount of fat,
which can be rendered down into all these incredible, healthy, usable products.
And, uh, and so, I mean, like we have,
we use my point is we use more off a,
of a bear than we do almost any other big game animal that we hunt.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.